school ball season is upon us and with
that comes the much-hyped after ball
party just this week in pokhara high
schools after ball was busted up by
police and liquor licensing officials
who confiscated alcohol before students
arrived so what can schools do about
these events or joining us now is
packing oncologist principal Michael
Williams good morning to you good
morning people so the after ball
obviously you were no way involved with
it no but from what I understand it was
a non-event you know we were not
involved we didn't know about it we
suspected something was planned as usual
it was a bit of a non-event thankfully I
was really good to see the authorities
stepping in enforcing the law it must be
a very difficult job for a principal to
be in because obviously you know these
things are going to happen you warn
students you warn parents what more can
you do there's very little more that we
can do that we don't actually have the
authority over the parents or over the
professional promoters are out there
organizing these illegal events what are
your obligations basically the school
board finishes at madeo no midnight
really it would change things wouldn't
it and you put a bus on back to the
school we put buses on back to the
school to make sure the students were
there we waited afterwards to make sure
every student had a ride home even
volunteer to take a few students home
had transport was backed up we also have
an obligation about making sure the
parents are really aware of their
obligations about the legal obligations
around after balls the consequences of
the students being involved there so it
really is an educational process for
them I'm gonna be basically they're
illegal is there anything more to it
that simple we have very clear liquor
licensing laws in the country and the
vineyard for a long time nothing was
different this weekend to what was all
five years ago but good to see this time
that the authorities have actually
stepped in and are enforcing a law and
they have been quite involved this year
I know that they sent out and
communication with all of the schools in
your area yes we've been working with
the licensing authority in the police
around the communication and they in
fact sent us some very good information
on Thursday which we emailed to all of
our parents on Friday so that they were
up to date with exactly what was going
to happen I think though in terms of we
were tell them that the police were
going to intervene and do things but I
think it was a little bit of year we
heard it before these things have been
going on forever people have been
turning a blind eye to what happens it
after balls for a long time well they
get as you say they have been going on
long time was it a relief to see that
someone actually stood up and did
something about it very much so
principals in a terrible situation and
we have a wonderful event our school
ball where we enjoy a great night with
students and it gets the shadow hanging
over at the whole time over something we
have no control over the reality is as
kids do like to do something afterwards
most parents must surely be aware of
that given the fact that that so many
kids I guess were permitted to stay out
past midnight and that you didn't have I
guess parents waiting to pick up their
children do parents need to sort of step
up and say if you want a function
afterwards bring a group of mates back
to our house let's do it here I think
you can have really good functions
without alcohol and if you need to have
alcohol have it in the home with the
parents supervising but I think we saw
on it was TV 3 News a promoter was in
Christchurch who runs non-alcoholic
after ballplayer parties and finds it
very successful I think we just need to
change the norm unfortunates become
normal to have after balls with alcohol
no one's enforced the law so it's become
expected if we can change that culture
I'm sure people will spring up with
options around after ball parties which
are fun and exciting which don't have
alcohol me what will you be saying to
the students today I mean or is this
done and dusted for you for us it's done
and dusted well looking forward to them
the next ball and I think now there'll
be an expectation that if there's gonna
be an act of all it better at comply
with the law would you look at banning
balls but banning the school balls as
we've seen some school stuff we have
seen schools do that and the unfortunate
thing that happens there is generally
the students who are punished are the
ones that weren't the ones that broke
the rules and it didn't have them the
threat of van in the ball didn't stop
the after all happening the so you're
really punishing the wrong group really
we want education and really we want the
authorities who have the power to stop
it to step up and do it which we've seen
on a weekend so all part of them well
Michael thank you very much for joining
us this morning Michael Williams from
pocono college it's tricky isn't it it's
easy to pretend that we don't know
anything about what's going on there'll
be a lot of ppl k'hal fueled after ball
party and they have spoken to them about
it no they haven't said don't go they
have and said don't drink they've just
said be careful and then cross their
fingers and waited and hoped up please
behind by three it is just silly
for us to imagine that there aren't many
many parents out there who know this is
happening in their family there but for
the grace of God really